# PhD
Pseudocodes for the procedures described in the PhD thesis 'Computation of long engineering structures’ axis out of high-density point clouds' (available only in polish):
Buczek, M. M. (2022). Wyznaczanie osi głównej wydłużonych obiektów inżynierskich na podstawie gęstych chmur punktów (Doctoral dissertation).

Abstract
The dissertation presents the problem of computing high-accuracy axes of long engineering structures such as chimneys, towers, and pipelines which are measured by a laser scanner. Regardless of measurements’ resolution, the obtained point cloud is only a discrete model of the measured object. In order to compute a high-accuracy axis, a solution based on continuous surface models created out of point clouds was presented. 
The literature analysis focused both on modeling point clouds into continuous surface models and on algorithms to compute axes. Models based on NURBS were chosen for further computations because of the variety of shapes of the engineering structures. Computer implementations of algorithms to generate NURBS use polygon meshes which are created out of point clouds. The flawless points clouds used in tests were depicting objects of different shapes and geometrical features. Experiments were assessing the influence of the inputs’ form and shape, as well as influence of a method of polygonal mesh creation, on the accuracy of the final NURBS model.
Axes were computed with well-known methods and algorithms presented by the author. The study’s initial phase was conducted with a set of trivial geometrical objects resulting in the rejection of the least accurate algorithms. In the main phase, axes were calculated out of the previously created NURBS models. The computations were performed in the intersecting planes presenting the most complex variant of each of the models.
The presented process to compute axes was verified by real-world data representing a few engineering structures measured with laser scanning. The analysis resulted in determining the most accurate algorithms based on the structure’s shape. The obtained accuracies proved the functionality of the tested methods for applications in the engineering surveying.
